This is the topic of this teaching. And the other day, again, always said so many times in the
teaching and these old great masters said that's what they practiced it.
First, this foundation is so important. So important, we have to have foundation.
Foundation is to assemble such a good heart, devotion, and bodhichitta.
That is what is. And within that context, we should practice ngondro.
That I've mentioned yesterday a few times, or it's in the teaching said already.
This ngondro and as well as these four renunciation thoughts, those all very, very necessary.
Necessary because we let to glorify, reveal our treasure of the nature of the mind.
And in order to do this, we need all those practices, these practices.
This practice with ngondro is revealing our nature of the mind.
Four renunciation thoughts, we are revealing our natural mind. At the same time, we are settling
down.
If we don't have the four renunciation thoughts, as well as these ngondro practices, many times we
are hovering or we are hoofing.
Hoofing? I don't understand that.
Like kangaroo. Hoofing. Hoofing. Hoofing. We are not really set on ground. Like hoofing. And
carrying our habit pattern on the bottom.
If kangaroo had this, I don't know. She or you will like that.
But we are, every one of these four renunciation thoughts, ngondro and bodhijata, we are hoping as
the kangaroo carrying our habit pattern strongly in the body of ourself.
Therefore, true to kind of avoiding that habit pattern between that, so many lifetimes, countless
lifetimes, therefore we have to settle down.
We have to grounded ourself. To be grounded ourself is the mondro practice, joy and devotion, bodh
ijata and humble and humility.
Those all need it. Those all need it. Many times, many practices start countering, I received this
empowerment, I received this, I read this lama, that lama, this great teacher, this and that.
Of course it is really great. Great. But how much you really observe? Observe. Just so you know
intellectually.
Intellectually you know, intellectually you received. That not going to serve the purpose, actually
what we are looking forward to.
If you know all the mineral vatals in the world, it not going to remove your thirst, all our thirst
, unless we drink.
This is knowing things, knowing things, true contract, this and these things. It's great.
Pose is great, but second we have to observe, we have to enjoy and happy. Happy what we have and
move forward in that.
That is what really we need it. So therefore this mondro practice is so important.
It is foundation, it is central column, it is our frame, it is an architectural frame to build our
enlightenment qualities.
And therefore this mondro, in all this joy and devotion, what in mondro it is taught, that whole
package is so important.
And with that understanding, then we are going to add now, this is the second this practices.
And that is here is also the universe, sit. Sit.
Second the main practice consists of having cut through misconception, concerning view, meditation
and action.
This is now second addition. Addition in a way we are doing now finishing touch.
This is like finishing touch in a way.
And now for that, generally in the teaching that we have learned so many times, such as a great
master K.J. Noorja, we have learned.
There is two way to approach, two way to engage this.
This is called starting way, more kind of intellectual way approaching to this target or to the
practices.
Or very simple way to target to these practices.
And the intellectual way is starting.
And this is what in the Buddha teaching, starting all the like, such as Vinaya teaching, Sutra
teaching, Abhidharma teaching, those are the Buddha teaching.
And those are then more clarified, more summarized by such as great masters of the Naga Arjuna or
the sixth ornament of India.
In India to where there are so many great masters, one after another, from the 8th century until
now, there are so many great masters, wrote commentaries on those teachings.
Teachings, that commentary means clarifications.
Clarifications can bring forth the split in the college of their teaching so that we can easily
understand, more easily can put those, so many teachings.
And those are starting that, from the teacher, or qualified teacher.
And as you started and then contemplate all those teachings.
So those are what is more kind of scholar ways.
Sometimes even in the teaching named, like scholar way to do the practices and then more kind of
like a yogi style or yogi style, hermitage style to do the practices.
So the scholar way is more, this kind of like more in a way, also graduations, more gradually
moving.
As tell that in all the different teachings, to understand the meaning of the teachings and then to
move to the meaning, the meaning of the nature of all the phenomena existence.
And then, so that way, and again I think we heard so many times, is such as then, you know, is like
Mademaka teachings.
Mademaka teaching is not just philosophy, what we learn in the intellectual things.
Mademaka teaching is actually really practice.
Practice, this is.
And what Mademaka means, as you all know, is middle.
Middle means not extreme.
And that's what in the teaching said, in the Buddha teaching, Sutra said, the thinking of existing
is extreme.
Thinking of not existing is extreme.
Moving from either extremes or avoiding all the extremes and moving to the middle, that is known as
the Mademaka or the middle thought.
Not holding on extremes of either side, existing, non-existing.
And then many times in the teaching also said, neither and either.
This is generally holding pattern.
Holding is our grasping and our clinging.
That's what we hold, we grasp.
And nature is not either side, either side.
Nature is completely, in a way, neutral status.
Neither existing, nor existing, is beyond.
And that's what the Mademaka teaching said.
And that is what the practice, when you establish that, then the Mademaka teaching immediately
looks at externally,
externally in the middle view, externally, non-existing, more engaging.
But eventually it comes to the mind, who is holding that?
Existing, not existing.
So it is a graduation way.
The first object is free from all those extremes, then moving to the subject is free from all the
extremes.
And that is the beauty of the Mademaka teaching.
Project, reasoning, all those used, astrology, the pramtha as in the teaching said, pramtha samsara
, when all the well and nirvana is totally empty.
Empty, free from the extremes.
Empty means free from the extremes.
It's not something negation standing, not existing.
It's free from all the extreme things.
And then, Buddha said, also pramtha like, from the first path, all the way the enlightened path of
enlightenment is also free from the existence.
So it's moved from the out to the samsara in one way, and then moved to the in, to the mind.
And this is again in the Buddha's teaching, when we joined, also how Buddha established the view of
this great Mademaka.
Mademaka, form is emptyness.
He meant, he meant form because that's what we sentient beings are always looking for.
Form is emptyness.
This is what is easy for us.
It's gross.
Form is gross.
That's what we hold in them.
Form is emptyness.
He used all those different reasons.
This reason is not just a talk, but Buddha actually is pointing out.
He's pointing out this phenomena existing is, is empty or the nature is neither sides.
So form is emptyness.
Then, after the form, what is?
I think feeling.
Then Buddha abbreviated.
And then he said the form is emptyness, emptyness form, so forth.
And then he mentioned feeling, conception, perception, and consciousness are the same as you should
see.
Saying that, then he moved from out in a way, from the object, then into the subject.
Then what is left?
All is free.
Every end point of the grasping, clinging, is released, removed.
It's not that Buddha mad that.
Mad that.
It's not just Buddha mad, mad that.
But that's the way the things are.
The way the things are.
And that's how the nature is.
And for that reason, Buddha chapter 1, he told, in the K Ching Buddha general, always take the
quotation or announce it as so loudly.
Whether Buddha came to this world, nature didn't really change.
Whether Buddha did not come to this world, things not change the way things are.
Nothing changed.
Whether Buddha gave the teaching, that didn't do anything in the natural level.
Or if he don't give teaching, that didn't do anything in the natural level.
Nature abides always the same as it is.
That's the true nature of what we are talking.
And that is the will of what we are talking.
The will.
So this is more academic level.
And then, of course, there are so many logic, so many reasons.
This logic and reason looks like it's pointing out.
But eventually, this great Master in Buddha leading to us is knocking down over all this regimen of
duality, consumption.
This grasping, the fired up, so many light turns, one after another, adding, adding, adding.
That is what is released.
Therefore, these are like nuclear bombs to the grasping, to the clinging, to remove that.
So that we can really reveal our beauty of nature.
What Buddha is talking, infinite love, infinite compassion, and wisdom that sees everything, almost
everything.
That this is not what is happening now. Why? This grasping, the fired up, this illusion grasping,
this regimen of consumption like clothes is completely blocked.
Blowed this natural nature.
And who did that?
No one else did it.
One's own mistake.
And therefore, one's own deeds, we have to untie it.
We, ourselves, have to be released that, that not.
This video, we have to clean this. We have to do everything.
There's no one other welcome, clean, even cannot go to.
And that's what Buddha said.
I cannot clean your, I cannot clean obscuration, clean.
I cannot take weightless, but only I can show the path.
That means I can show technique, skills, methods, and tips.
Then it's up to you.
And that's why Buddha is not a great teacher.
Buddha is also talking, teaching is accurate through the teaching.
It's not just over and up things.
Exhale, that's the way things are.
We have to release, we have to clean, we have to do.
Ultimately, ourself is the doer. Ourself is the worker.
And ourself is the helper to ourself.
And therefore, that also can happen to other beings.
That is the one with those understanding.
And then this all known as the scholarly.
That is generally known as the scholarly.
And those examples such as the scholarly to discover the true nature is roughly,
it's not just exactly that, but roughly we can tell.
I sleep for example, Nagarudvara himself.
And the Shendarathya, the great master, Shendarathya.
And then this is just an example.
All those great masters, most of them got so great scholars and collective.
So great scholars.
And then they went to the meditation.
And the great master in Naropa.
And those all.
And then as well in it were Nokhenpa.
Great master, Mahara Nokis.
First Chetse. First Unter.
I mean all the, in Paparudon, all like this.
They started, completed, mastered all the teachings of the Buddha.
And as well as master of all sciences of the Buddha,
or sciences of that one in the Buddha teaching,
called five great sciences.
Science, medicine, drug, language, medicine, drug.
And the logic. And then Buddha teaching, drug.
Sema, zou, zou.
And then zou is a geometry, or what it's called?
Geometry, or architectural, or the engineering.
All those in the zou.
When you read those great master books, they are really true.
They are engineering.
They are artists. They are artists.
They know all of this.
They kept chemical to you.
Chemist, chemistry.
So they mastered that.
So in Tibet they used zou, zou, zou, and Naropa.
And this zou, zou, zou.